always in|If you have to be in the market at all times, either long or short, this is whatever your current position is (always-in long or always-in short). If at any time you are forced to decide between initiating a long or a short trade and are confident in your choice, then the market is in always-in mode at that moment. Almost all of these trades require a spike in the direction of the trend before traders will have confidence.
barbwire|A trading range of three or more bars that largely overlap and one or more is a doji. It is a type of tight trading range with prominent tails and often relatively large bars. Beginners should stop trading until there is a clear breakout. Experienced traders will sometimes buy below bars and sell above bars.
bar pullback|In an upswing, a bar pullback is a bar with a low below the low of the prior bar. In a downswing, it is a bar with a high above that of the prior bar.
bear flag|A minor reversal up in a bear trend. Traders expect the bear trend to resume. It can be as brief as one sideways bar or it can retrace most of the most recent leg down. As long as traders believe the market is still Always In Short, the rally is still more likely to be a bear flag than a successful trend reversal up.
bear reversal|A change in trend from up to down (a bear trend).
body gap (formerly negative gap)|When there is a pullback that tests a breakout point, the tails overlap, but the bodies do not. For example, think about a bull breakout and then there is a pullback 5 – 10 bars later. If the low of the pullback bar falls below the high of the breakout point’s bar, the pullback closes the gap. However, if the low of the body of the pullback bar stays above the high of the body of the breakout point’s bar, there is a gap between the 2 bodies. That is a Body Gap. While not as strong as an actual gap, it is a sign of strength and it often is still a measuring gap.
blown account|An account in which your losses have fallen below the minimum margin requirements set by your broker, and you will not be allowed to place a trade unless you deposit more money.
breakout|The high or low of the current bar extends beyond some prior price of significance such as a swing high or low, the high or low of any prior bar, a trend line, or a trend channel. If the close is beyond the high or low of the prior bar, the breakout is stronger and the distance between the close and the high or low of the prior bar often becomes a measuring gap.
breakout bar (or bar breakout)|A bar that creates a breakout. It is usually a strong trend bar.
breakout mode|A setup where a breakout in either direction should have follow-through.
breakout pullback|A small pullback of one to about five bars that occurs within a few bars after a breakout. Since you see it as a pullback, you are expecting the breakout to resume, and the pullback is a setup for that resumption. If instead you thought that the breakout would fail, you would not use the term pullback and instead would see the pullback as the start of a failed breakout and a reversal. For example, if there was a five-bar breakout above a bear trend line, but you believed that the bear trend would resume, you would be considering shorting this and you would be seeing it as a bear flag. You would not be looking to buy a pullback immediately after the market broke out to the downside.
